faq-support.md, before:

# FAQ and Support

### What is new/different in ClassicPress v1?

Details of the changes in ClassicPress v1 are available in on our [forums](https://forums.classicpress.net/t/classicpress-1-0-0-aurora-release-notes/910).

### Will my current plugins and themes work in ClassicPress?

All current plugins and themes which work in WordPress 4.9.x, will work in ClassicPress v1. If you're experiencing something different, that's probably a bug with ClassicPress, and we'd appreciate you reporting it in the [support forums](https://forums.classicpress.net/c/support), [Slack](https://www.classicpress.net/join-slack/), or [GitHub](https://github.com/ClassicPress/ClassicPress/issues).

### I’m a developer, will I need to learn any new language or framework to develop in ClassicPress?

Not unless you want to! We have some exciting features planned for version 2 and beyond, but they will all be optional and fully backwards-compatible.

### How can I indicate my plugin/theme is compatible with CP?

Plugins and themes should be tagged <em>ClassicPress</em> to allow users to easily find them when searching on the Wordpress.org site or repositories via the ClassicPress admin panel.

A number of plugins have already been tagged as compatible with ClassicPress and can [easily be found](https://wordpress.org/plugins/search/classicpress/) in the WordPress Plugin Repository.

### I think I found a bug – what do I do?

Bugs can be reported on the [support forums](https://forums.classicpress.net/c/support) or, if you know how to write a bug report, via GitHub. If logging via GitHub, please make sure to follow the template instructions:

- For issues with ClassicPress itself, [open an issue here](https://github.com/ClassicPress/ClassicPress/issues/new).
- For issues with the Migration plugin, [open an issue here](https://github.com/ClassicPress/ClassicPress-Migration-Plugin/issues/new).

### I need help with something else, what should I do?

If you have an issue with ClassicPress that you'd like some help resolving, go to our [support forum](https://forums.classicpress.net/c/support) and make a new topic. Be sure to search existing posts first to make sure your question hasn't already been answered.

If you just have a question or want to chat with us about something, you can [join our Slack group](https://www.classicpress.net/join-slack/).

Please remember that like all of ClassicPress, our support is a volunteer effort by the community. If you are able to help answer support questions in the forum, that is also more than welcome!

Commit message:

Add extra plugin compatibility fail scenario (#2)
For plugins that state they are compatible with WP4.9 but don't work, it's not always a bug in CP. It may be that a recent plugin update has broken both WP and CP. This has happened a few times now and the plugin dev has been notified and fixed it.

faq-support.md, after:

# FAQ and Support

### What is new/different in ClassicPress v1?

Details of the changes in ClassicPress v1 are available in on our [forums](https://forums.classicpress.net/t/classicpress-1-0-0-aurora-release-notes/910).

### Will my current plugins and themes work in ClassicPress?

All current plugins and themes which work in WordPress 4.9.x, will work in ClassicPress v1. If you're experiencing something different, that's possibly a bug with ClassicPress, and we'd appreciate you reporting it in the [support forums](https://forums.classicpress.net/c/support), [Slack](https://www.classicpress.net/join-slack/), or [GitHub](https://github.com/ClassicPress/ClassicPress/issues).

There have also been a few occasions where a plugin update has broken compatibility with both WordPress 4.9.x and ClassicPress. Whatever the case may be, we recommend contacting the plugin developers and asking them to make their plugin compatible with WordPress 4.9.x (and therefore ClassicPress).

### I’m a developer, will I need to learn any new language or framework to develop in ClassicPress?

Not unless you want to! We have some exciting features planned for version 2 and beyond, but they will all be optional and fully backwards-compatible.

### How can I indicate my plugin/theme is compatible with CP?

Plugins and themes should be tagged <em>ClassicPress</em> to allow users to easily find them when searching on the Wordpress.org site or repositories via the ClassicPress admin panel.

A number of plugins have already been tagged as compatible with ClassicPress and can [easily be found](https://wordpress.org/plugins/search/classicpress/) in the WordPress Plugin Repository.

### I think I found a bug – what do I do?

Bugs can be reported on the [support forums](https://forums.classicpress.net/c/support) or, if you know how to write a bug report, via GitHub. If logging via GitHub, please make sure to follow the template instructions:

- For issues with ClassicPress itself, [open an issue here](https://github.com/ClassicPress/ClassicPress/issues/new).
- For issues with the Migration plugin, [open an issue here](https://github.com/ClassicPress/ClassicPress-Migration-Plugin/issues/new).

### I need help with something else, what should I do?

If you have an issue with ClassicPress that you'd like some help resolving, go to our [support forum](https://forums.classicpress.net/c/support) and make a new topic. Be sure to search existing posts first to make sure your question hasn't already been answered.

If you just have a question or want to chat with us about something, you can [join our Slack group](https://www.classicpress.net/join-slack/).

Please remember that like all of ClassicPress, our support is a volunteer effort by the community. If you are able to help answer support questions in the forum, that is also more than welcome!
